Installation
============

Requirements
------------

- Python 2.7 or Python 3.4+
- sparsegrad
- Python scientific stack

Installation from PyPI
----------------------

It is recommended to use `Python Package Index (PyPI) <https://pypi.org/>`_ to install ``oedes`` package. This is done using command-line by ``pip`` program, which is normally installed together with Python. Using this method, all dependencies are resolved automatically.

Two variants of the installation are possible:

- system wide installation:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pip install oedes

- local installation not requiring administrator's rights:

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pip install oedes --user

In the case of local installation, `oedes` is installed inside user's home directory. In Linux, this defaults to ``$HOME/.local``.

Verifying the installation
--------------------------

After installing, it is advised to run the test suite to ensure that `oedes` works correctly on your system:

.. doctest::
   :options: +SKIP

   >>> import oedes
   >>> oedes.test()
   Running unit tests for oedes...
   OK
   <nose.result.TextTestResult run=15 errors=0 failures=0>

If any errors are found, `oedes` is not compatible with your system. Either your Python scientific stack is too old, or there is a bug. 

`oedes` is evolving, and backward compatibility is not yet offered. It is recommended to check which version is in use by running:

.. doctest::

   >>> import oedes
   >>> oedes.version
   '0.0.18'

Upgrading/downgrading
---------------------

By default, ``pip`` does not upgrade packages unless required. To change this behavior, option ``--upgrade`` should be used. For example, `oedes` is updated to the most recent version by running

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pip install oedes --upgrade

It is also possible to upgrade/downgrade `oedes` by specifying an exact version to be installed. For example, to ensure that installed version is ``0.0.18``, run

.. code-block:: bash

   $ pip install oedes==0.0.18

Again, ``--user`` option can be given to restrict changes to users' home directory.

Development installation (advanced)
-----------------------------------

Current development version of sparsegrad can be installed from the development repository by running

.. code-block:: bash

   $ git clone https://github.com/mzszym/oedes.git
   $ cd oedes
   $ pip install -e .

The option ``-e`` tells that ``oedes`` code should be loaded from ``git`` controlled directory, instead of being copied to the Python libraries directory. As with the regular installation, ``--user`` option should be appended for local installation.

Building documentation
----------------------

Documentation of `oedes` is generated by `sphinx <http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/>`_. Its source files are placed in ``doc`` folder.

To produce HTML and PDF documentation, run

.. code-block:: bash

   $ cd doc
   $ make html
   $ make latexpdf

